Welcome back to my 10 favorite people.
Hope you're doing well. I'm incredibly
excited for today's video because
Bitcoin held our major support level at
109,000 and our macro structure remains
fully intact. Believe it or not, since
we last spoke this weekend, Bitcoin
dropped a little bit over 3% and somehow
we saw another roughly $1 billion in
liquidations. And this is why I never
recommend leverage trading on this
channel. It's so much easier to zoom out
and focus on the larger time frames and
the major support and resistance levels
so you're not flipping between bullish
and bearish on every 1% move and getting
liquidated and losing capital over and
over and over again. I like to keep it
very simple. If Bitcoin is holding above
109,000, bullish structure is still
intact. And as long as Bitcoin is
holding the 50-week moving average, our
bull market is still underway. Until one
of those two things changes, my bias is
that Bitcoin still has higher to go. And
this is what I wrote about in Monday's
free weekly report called holding the
line. As long as we stay above that
previous range high, my base case is
that Bitcoin still has higher to go. And
I believe there are three main scenarios
we have to watch out for. a bounce off
support that results in new highs and
price discovery, which is my base case
with about a 60% likelihood as of right
now. And then we have the scenario where
we do bounce off support but only make a
lower high before new lows and testing
the 50week moving average. This would be
our full reset scenario. I would perhaps
put a 30% likelihood on that one. And
then we have to face the fact that there
is always a chance the cycle could be
over and Bitcoin just falls through all
these support levels or we end up having
a black swan event we didn't see coming.
But I would only put that at a 10%
likelihood. And I believe the best way
to navigate markets is to have multiple
scenarios you're watching out for, but
then you change your portfolio based on
what you think is most likely and least
likely. And this is why my portfolio is
set up the way it is. I'm convinced this
is the most optimal portfolio that one
can have because it makes just about
everyone upset. People get mad at the
cash position being 30%, because it's a
melting ice cube and it's losing money
to the basement and if you're not 100%
Bitcoin, you're falling behind. And then
you have a bunch of people upset about
the Bitcoin position because Bitcoin is
already above 100,000 and the upside is
limited and it doesn't make sense to
hold Bitcoin when everybody is piling
into Ethereum because Ethereum has way
more upside and alt season's around the
corner and Bitcoin's dead. And then you
have the Bitcoin maximalists that are
upset about my altcoin position because
all altcoins are trash and Bitcoin is
king and if you hold any altcoins,
you're just going to lose money. Even
though Ethereum and Salana have done so
well this cycle and I think they're
going to continue to outperform Bitcoin
between now and when the cycle ends. And
I do think this portfolio prepares me
for all possible outcomes. And I did
take some profits on my Ethereum
holdings this week and rotated them into
Bitcoin because my Bitcoin holdings were
getting quite small compared to my
Ethereum holdings with the incredible
move we've seen from Ethereum recently.
And I know that might sound crazy
because everybody is in love with
Ethereum right now. And I do expect
Ethereum to outperform Bitcoin for the
remainder of the cycle, but Ethereum
does also have more downside risk. So, I
don't want Ethereum to become too big of
a portion of my portfolio. And I feel
more comfortable having Bitcoin being my
biggest holding. And as always, if you'd
like to learn more about my portfolio
automation system or mental models I use
to navigate this market or common
mistakes I see so many investors making,
especially at this phase in the cycle,
you can check out the crypto enjoyers
program and community in the video
description. But for now, in terms of
answering how low Bitcoin will go, I do
believe it'll hold this support level
because of the previous swing high and
the 20week moving average. But it's
possible that we come down and retest
that 50 week somewhere around 100K. That
would just complicate things quite a bit
because it would be a false breakout
above 110,000.
And usually false breakouts result in
pretty large corrections and it's
usually not a great sign for what's to
come. But we'll adjust to that as needed
once price action tells us to be
concerned about it. And speaking of
being concerned about it, let's talk
about the Bitcoin cycle top and why most
investors will likely be wrong about
timing it. I know this Coin Glass 30
bull market peak indicators is
incredibly popular and I get questions
about it all the time, but I do believe
it's going to get investors wrecked this
cycle because it doesn't do a great job
of accounting for diminishing returns.
And I'm going to go over exactly why.
Let's start with a fan favorite that I
see commented all the time, the PI cycle
top indicator, which is calling for a
Bitcoin price this cycle above
187,000.
But what most people don't notice is
that although this indicator has not
failed in any Bitcoin cycle, the
diminishing returns have been making it
harder and harder to use. And in case
you aren't familiar with this indicator,
the PI cycle top indicator flashes a
sell signal when the 111day moving
average gets above two times the 350day
moving average. If we take a look at
2011, we can see that the green moving
average spent quite a bit of time above
the blue, giving investors a pretty
prolonged sell signal. In 2013 with the
double bubble, we had two crosses, but
they were quite a bit shallower than the
cross we saw in 2011. In 2017, the green
moving average barely crossed above the
blue. And then in 2021, the moving
averages barely touched. So based on
that diminishing returns trend of the
crosses getting smaller and smaller and
2021 being a very very brief touch, you
would imagine that because of
diminishing returns, they would not
cross this cycle. And I know a lot of
people say diminishing returns don't
matter anymore because of institutions
and bigger players, but Bitcoin's market
cap is also a lot bigger. So the laws of
markets don't change. You just have
bigger players moving a bigger market
cap. So you still end up with
diminishing returns even if the main
players have changed. Let's take a look
at another quick example. The 2year MA
multiplier or the Mayor multiple calling
for a Bitcoin top above 350,000
this cycle. But what do you know? The
sell signals have been getting smaller
and smaller. The sell signal for this
one is price going higher than five
times the 2-year moving average. And
notice how the time spent above that red
line has been less and less. It couldn't
even get above it in the last cycle
because as an asset gets bigger and less
volatile, it becomes harder and harder
to get very extended away from moving
averages because the returns get smaller
and smaller and diminish over time. So,
I don't believe we're going to cross the
red this cycle. And I don't believe
Bitcoin is going to trade above 350,000
even though a bunch of people are going
to be waiting for these peak indicators
to flash a sell signal. And real quick,
a lot of people talk about the Pwell
multiple. This looks at minor revenue
divided by the 360day average of minor
revenue. And as you can see, lower high,
lower high, lower high, lower high,
lower high. I don't think this one is
going to be able to reach levels it
reached previously because minor
revenues are getting squeezed. Same
thing with the MVRV. Probably the most
popular onchain indicator for Bitcoin.
This looks at the market value divised
by the realized value or the market cap
divided by the realized cap. You can see
it's lower high, lower high, lower high,
lower high. and diminishing returns make
it very hard to use these indicators
unless you actually take diminishing
returns into account. So for example, in
the previous cycle it reached a reading
of almost 8 and before that it was
almost 12. So maybe this cycle you get
close to four or slightly above it as a
top for the MVRVZ score. So most
investors, especially retail investors,
are going to be waiting for the red box
up here because they're being told this
time is different. So diminishing
returns don't matter because
institutions play by different rules.
And it's likely going to play out the
same way once again with diminishing
returns. And this is why I prefer to use
data points that work across asset
classes and aren't as impacted by
diminishing returns like market
sentiment with the fear and greed index
and seeing whether we're in extreme
greed or normal greed or neutral or fear
or extreme fear or taking a look at
seasonality not because it has to repeat
but just to give us an idea of what has
happened in the past. And it's also why
I love looking at macro indicators like
the global liquidity index that exist
outside of Bitcoin and seem to be one of
the main drivers of risk assets,
especially Bitcoin, which doesn't have
things like earnings driving it. So,
we'll see what happens, but for now, it
looks like Bitcoin is putting in another
false breakdown that have resulted in
some pretty solid rallies recently. We
have MetaPlanet announcing they're going
to be buying more Bitcoin. Strategy is
also buying more Bitcoin even though the
purchases are starting to get smaller
because Sailor is facing a lot of
pressure for MSTR's underperformance
over the past few months as he's been
using the premium to buy Bitcoin which
is upsetting shareholders. And we
finally saw some spot ETF inflows once
again after a 6day outflow streak. But
these Bitcoin ETF inflows are still
pretty lackluster. You can see that
August and July have been pretty
lackluster in terms of Bitcoin spot ETF
inflows. And that's almost entirely
because all of that capital is chasing
Ethereum instead. And this is usually
what results in a cycle top for Bitcoin.
Bitcoin dominates the narrative. Bitcoin
dominates all of the money flow like
what we saw in 2021. But then eventually
Bitcoin gets high enough that everybody
starts rotating into and chasing
altcoins. And people said this cycle
would be different because institutions
only want Bitcoin. Corporate treasuries
only want Bitcoin. But what do you know?
The main thing that institutions,
treasuries, whales and investors care
about alike is profits and number go up.
So, as soon as Ethereum got a narrative,
and as soon as Ethereum got their own
Michael Sailor, who keeps bulling on
Twitter and talking about it on CNBC,
now Ethereum puts in its incredible
rally as investors go further out on the
risk curve from Bitcoin. And Bitcoin
ends up flatlining and languishing a bit
here. And usually the cycle tops once
the experiment is done on Ethereum and
all of these corporate treasuries start
chasing assets even further out on the
risk curve causing Bitcoin and Ethereum
to top and ending the cycle. But for
now, things still look pretty solid for
Ethereum. Bit mine is still buying a ton
of ETH. Sharplink is also buying a ton
of ETH. And we see these strategic
reserves accumulating more and more of
the supply alongside the ETFs as the
ETFs try to frontr run the treasuries.
and a bunch of normal investors and
smart money are trying to frontr run
those ETF inflows. So, as long as we see
these big inflows coming into Ethereum
and as long as it keeps dominating the
narrative, I believe it's going to go
higher until eventually perhaps that
attention moves on to something else
like Salana. I do believe it's possible
for us to see a 6 to7,000 Ethereum. But
I still am not in the camp that Ethereum
is going to get anywhere near 20,000
because like we talked about earlier in
this video, diminishing returns are a
thing. Right now, we are in the belief
phase of the long-term holder. Net
unrealized profit and loss. This just
measures how much unrealized profits
long-term holders are sitting on. Once
we're in the blue region, that means
they're sitting on a ton of unrealized
profits, hence euphoria. And usually
once we enter that region, we're very
near a top. We're still in the green
region for now, but we will be entering
the blue region very soon. Similar story
from the MVRV and similar to Bitcoin.
You see a very high reading in the 2017
cycle because the multiples were insane.
Lower high in the 2021 cycle because the
asset was bigger and diminishing returns
took effect. So, I expect to see
diminishing returns here once again now
that Ethereum has a market cap of nearly
$500 billion. We also have Ethereum
Bitcoin sitting at a resistance level
here, which also made it easier to
rotate some of my Ethereum into Bitcoin.
Ethereum is up, I believe, around 140%
against Bitcoin just over the past few
months. And I'll rotate even more
Ethereum to Bitcoin if we get up to that
0.5 Fibonacci retracement and 2022 low
because I do expect a lot of profit
taking on Ethereum at that level. But
I'm more than happy to take things week
by week and see what the price action
and market data tells us. But we are
entering a difficult seasonality period
for Ethereum, which is September. Every
single time Ethereum has had an
incredible August. We've had a red
September. That doesn't mean this has to
happen again, but mean reversion is a
thing and profit taking is likely going
to happen sometime soon. So, we'll
continue to monitor that as we get
closer. But this gave me even more peace
of mind and conviction rotating just
some of those Ethereum profits back into
Bitcoin after the recent outperformance.
And speaking of recent outperformance,
it is great to see Salana waking up a
little bit. It seems like more and more
people are waking up to what I've been
talking about and what I said in the
past video about Salana being the best
risk adjusted returns after Bitcoin and
Ethereum. Much better than XRP, much
better than Cardano, and better than
just about every other asset of that
size. And for a couple of reasons,
there's really three main catalysts for
Salana that I think make it special. For
one, the network usage is insane. You
can say that it's mostly bots. You can
say that it's mostly not real
transactions, but if that's true, why
aren't these other teams doing the same
thing so their metrics can look better?
Why is Salana higher than everything
else by multiple orders of magnitude?
And anybody who says Salana isn't the
best user experience in this asset class
hasn't used any blockchain ever because
anytime I have to send stable coins or
do anything on chain, it is 10 times
easier to do on Salana. Only thing that
comes close is base which is a layer 2
on Ethereum. And I do believe it's good
to have two separate approaches. You
have Ethereum with the decentralized
layer 2 approach. You have Salana with
the slightly more centralized layer 1
high throughput blockchain. And I think
it's going to be very hard for any other
chain to out compete one of those two in
their current methodologies. I do
believe the window for becoming the
Ethereum killer for other chains is
closing and Salana is now the clear
number two after Ethereum. And I believe
institutional investors realize this.
They're already setting up corporate
treasuries to run the playbook that we
saw on Bitcoin and Ethereum again on
Salana. The reason why I don't think
it's going to happen for something like
BNB or Tron, even though those chains
get a lot of usage is because they're
not going to get the same US institution
inflows that Ethereum, Bitcoin, and
Salana could because Salana is a bit
more US-based. It's going to be easier
for these corporate treasuries to buy
Salana just because we're going to get
those Salana ETFs by October. So, it
makes a lot of sense to me that after
the Ethereum Treasury playbook begins to
slow down and the diminishing return
starts take effect, investors start
rotating into Salana as the next one
that's going to have that move. We see
Sharp's technology announcing they're
going to buy $400 million of Salana as
well. And it seems like the main
narrative for alt season this cycle is
crypto ETFs and crypto treasuries. So, I
don't know how that's going to make the
whole market go up like alt seasons in
the past. Maybe some other narrative is
going to pop up, but as of right now,
really the only way these projects are
getting attention is if they have a lot
of corporate treasuries buying them or
if they have ETFs coming later this
year. So, I do think things like Cardano
and XRP can do well because of that ETF
narrative. But I do believe assets like
Ethereum and Salana separate themselves
a little bit because they are the ones
with the most usage and users which
allows investors to dream very big on
what the potential future could look
like on those blockchains. Salana
Bitcoin also looks quite solid here
clearing resistance levels one by one
and getting very close to our previous
range low. A reclaim of that level
likely results in a big move. And we now
have Salana and Ethereum getting very
close to Bitcoin's one-year performance.
Ethereum almost flipped Bitcoin for
one-year performance last week. And I do
expect Ethereum and Salana to end this
cycle outperforming Bitcoin. And I do
believe they are the lowest risk
projects outside of Bitcoin with that
potential upside. And it's great to see
the global liquidity index slowly
grinding higher here and getting very
close to making new highs. It's all
going to come down to the September FOMC
meeting. If Powell is more dovish than
anticipated, that probably sends the
global liquidity index higher and the
dollar index lower. If Powell surprises
us with more hawkishness because of
tomorrow's inflation data coming in
hotter than expected or the labor market
being stronger than expected between now
and the FOMC meeting, that could result
in some downward pressure in the short
term. So, I'm going to be keeping a very
close eye on that FOMC. We want to see
global liquidity higher and we want to
see the dollar index lower if we want
risk assets to rally and that's going to
have a huge impact on what we see from
these rate cut expectations. Right now,
everybody agrees we're going to see a
rate cut in September for the most part,
but we're expecting a pause in October
and another rate cut in December. Based
on current data and based on current Fed
commentary, we really want to see more
rate cuts than this if we're going to
get some type of extended cycle into
2026. But with the data as it stands, I
do believe we're going to have a major
correction in September because these
are not enough rate cuts to keep the
economy and markets going. But we'll see
what happens. As I said, we are getting
an update to the Fed's preferred measure
of inflation. Core PCE tomorrow. We want
to see it in line or below expectations.
A hot print would spook markets and push
back rate cut expectations because we
know the labor market is weakening under
the surface but still looking quite
resilient with headline data. We know
the economy is weakening under the
surface, but GDP is still positive. And
we know markets are still doing fine if
you take a look at the S&P 500 making
new all-time highs and Bitcoin making
new all-time highs. So, we really don't
want stubborn inflation to ruin the
party. But as we look forward, the
federal government is still running huge
deficits. That's a trend that seems to
be worsening year after year. And
exponential debt growth means
exponential money supply growth when
that debt eventually has to get
monetized. And that's bullish for our
risk assets like the S&P 500 until the
bubble pops. And it's bullish for our
fixed supply risk assets like Bitcoin.
But as always, let me know what you
expect. Thank you so much for the
support on the recent videos. Thank you
so much for watching and I'll talk to
you